*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK 65742 ***

                           LET’S HAVE A PARTY


                          RED, WHITE AND BLUE

Guests are to write the names of different objects or facts that are
associated with the colors red, white and blue. It might be specified
that they write the names of red vegetables (beets, tomatoes, red
cabbage, etc.), names of variations of the color white (off white,
oyster white, blue white, etc.). For blue the guests can name all of the
blue objects in the room in which they are sitting. The colors can be
used for other listings such as blue flowers or white precious stones.


                             HEART ARCHERY

Draw a large 30 inch heart on cardboard. Make circles of diminishing
size on heart to make target. The inner ring is labeled “heart smasher,”
the next to the center one is “lovers,” next is “somewhat affectionate,”
then outside this is “indifferent to love,” and the outside one is
titled “woman or man hater.” Guests are each given one try with toy bow
and arrow or with darts. The circle that they hit will indicate the
state of their heart.


                         PULLING HEART STRINGS

Cut hole in center of large red cardboard heart. Put long red strings
through the hole and place heart on top of a screen or door with boys on
one side and girls on the other. Have a string for each couple. Each boy
takes one end of a string and each girl takes one of the strings on the
other side of the heart. Heart is pulled from top of the screen and
after the strings are untangled, the partners for the next game are
found.




                           _Dessert Luncheon_


    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

  Angel Pie garnished with Cherries or Green Tinted Grapes
  Salted Walnuts
  Coffee


                             ANGEL FOOD PIE

  1 cup sugar
  ¼ cup cornstarch
  ⅛ teaspoon salt
  1½ cups hot pineapple juice
  3 stiffly beaten egg whites
  1 teaspoon vanilla or pineapple flavoring
  ¼ cup lemon juice

Mix sugar, cornstarch and salt well. Add pineapple juice gradually and
cook in top of double boiler, stirring constantly, until thick and
smooth. Add beaten egg whites to hot mixture a little at a time, beating
constantly with a rotary beater. Add flavoring and lemon juice. Cool
filling and pour into baked, chilled pastry shell. Top with flavored
whipped cream for serving.


                     Peppermint-Topped Sponge Cakes

  1 cup sifted cake flour
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  3 eggs, separated
  1 cup sugar
  4 teaspoons lemon juice

Sift flour, measure and sift again with salt. Beat egg yolks until thick
and lemon colored. Add sugar gradually, beating well. Add lemon juice.
Fold in stiffly beaten egg whites. Fold in flour gradually. Fill
ungreased cup cake pans about half full of batter. Bake in moderately
slow oven, 325 degrees, for about 30 minutes. Invert pans and cool
cakes. Frost with boiled or seven-minute frosting and sprinkle
generously with finely crushed peppermint stick candy.




                             _Bridge Lunch_


    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

  Green Pea Bouillon
  Hot Buttered Crackers
  Crab or Chicken Salad Mousse
  Hot Buttered Asparagus
  Butter Rolls
  Loganberry Jelly
  Relishes
  Rhubarb Crisp
  Coffee or Tea


                      Crab or Chicken Salad Mousse

  1 cup hot chicken broth
  3 egg yolks
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  ¼ teaspoon paprika
  1 tablespoon unflavored gelatin
  ¼ cup cold water
  1 tablespoon lemon juice
  ¾ cup diced, cooked chicken or crab, flaked
  ½ cup blanched chopped almonds
  ¾ cup whipping cream
  Few grains cayenne

Heat chicken stock. Beat egg yolks slightly, add salt, paprika and hot
chicken broth gradually, stirring constantly. Cook over hot water until
mixture is thick enough to coat a spoon. Meanwhile soak gelatin in cold
water and add hot chicken mixture, stirring until dissolved. Strain
mixture and cool until thickened slightly. Add lemon juice, chicken and
almonds and chill until thickened. Fold in cream that has been whipped
and cayenne. Pour into mold rinsed with cold water and chill until firm.
Serves 4 to 6.

Fold card 4 inches square through the middle. Cut small lace paper doily
in 3 or 4 pieces to center. Crease each piece in center and turn edges
from center to lace edge so that turned edges may be pasted onto card as
illustrated. Fill lace paper holder with small spring violets or other
flowers.




                             _Lunch At One_


    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

  Macaroni Cheese Timbales with Ham-Pimiento Sauce
  Watercress, Spring Lettuce and Radish Salad
  Hot Rolls
  Apricot Conserve
  Olives
  Peppermint Topped Cakes
  Pineapple Sherbet Garnished with Cherries
  Coffee or Tea


            Macaroni Cheese Timbales with Ham-Pimiento Sauce

  ½ cup bread crumbs
  2 tablespoons butter
  1 cup milk
  1 tablespoon minced onion
  ⅛ teaspoon mustard
  2 eggs or 4 egg yolks, slightly beaten
  1 cup grated well aged cheese
  ½ teaspoon salt
  Cooked macaroni

Mix bread crumbs, milk, shortening and onion together, beating until
creamy. Add other ingredients except macaroni and mix lightly. Line
ramekins or custard cups with cooked long macaroni and fill with timbale
mixture. Set in pan of hot water and bake in moderately slow oven, 325
degrees, for about 30 minutes or until mixture is set. Unmold and serve
with ham pimiento sauce made by adding 1 cup finely chopped ham, 4
tablespoons minced pimiento and ¼ teaspoon mustard to 2 cups well
seasoned medium white sauce.

Cover small round pill boxes with colored paper, fill boxes with candy
or nuts. Tie top on with harmonizing ribbon, write name of guest on box,
use as favor or place card.

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

Cut heavy cardboard in heart shape (size wanted). Use 2 for each heart,
paste or glue cellophane, either white or red, over cardboard frame,
paste 2 together with lace paper frill between. Bend wire to make hearts
stand on table.

Ask Mary Cullen’s staff for additional suggestions you may desire.

Use large No. 10 can or large round box. Cover with red and white
striped paper. Put blue band around crown and paste white stars on this.
Make brim of cardboard and cover with blue paper. Use as centerpiece
filled with white and red flowers, or with red, white and blue wrapped
favors.

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]




                            _Buffet Supper_


    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

  Veal Loaf
  Spanish Sauce
  Scalloped Succotash
  Cole Slaw
  Hot Buttered French Bread
  Currant Jam
  Peppermint Ice Cream
  Chocolate Potato Cake
  Coffee

Drum Cake Centerpiece—Make 2 or 3-layer chocolate cake. Frost with white
icing. When icing is set, melt chocolate over warm water and with paint
brush paint rim on cake as pictured to simulate rim and lacings of drum.
Use peppermint sticks as drumsticks. Place cake on wax paper, then on
red or white paper sprinkled with stars.


                      Veal Loaf with Spanish Sauce

  2 pounds veal
  1 cup bread crumbs
  1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce
  1½ teaspoons salt
  1 tablespoon catsup
  1 slightly beaten egg
  1 cup rich milk
  6 slices bacon

Grind veal. Add other ingredients except bacon and mix well with hands
or spoon. Pack into greased loaf pan, cover top with bacon strips and
bake in moderate oven, 350 degrees, for about 1½ hours. Serve hot with
Spanish sauce. Serves 8 to 10.


                             Spanish Sauce

  2 tablespoons shortening
  ½ cup chopped onions
  1 clove garlic
  2½ cups canned tomatoes
  2 teaspoons salt
  1 bay leaf
  8 whole cloves
  1 teaspoon chili powder
  2 teaspoons sugar
  1 teaspoon celery seed

Melt shortening, add onion and peeled and chopped garlic and cook 5
minutes. Add other ingredients and simmer slowly for about 45 minutes.
Strain, reheat and serve hot.




                         _Early Spring Dinner_


    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

  Hot Tomato Consomme
  Heart Shaped Croutons
  Mock Chicken Legs
  Cream Gravy
  Mashed Potatoes
  Buttered Peas
  Hot Biscuits or Rolls
  Apple Jelly
  Blitz Torte with Strawberries or Cherries
  Coffee


                              Blitz Torte

  ½ cup shortening
  ½ cup sugar
  3 eggs, separated
  ½ teaspoon vanilla
  5 tablespoons milk
  1 cup sifted flour
  1½ teaspoon baking powder
  1 teaspoon salt
  ½ cup sugar for meringue
  ½ cup chopped nut meats

Cream shortening, add sugar and cream until light and fluffy. Add well
beaten egg yolks, vanilla and milk and blend. Sift flour, measure and
sift with baking powder and salt. Place in two 9-inch layer pans that
have been lined with wax paper. Beat egg whites until stiff, add the ½
cup sugar gradually and beat. Spread meringue over batter and sprinkle
with chopped nuts. Bake in moderate oven, 350 degrees, for 30 minutes.
Cool cake. Put whipped cream and fresh or drained canned fruit between
layers, having meringue on top and bottom of cake. Top may be garnished
with whipped cream and fruit or berries. Serves 8 to 10.




                              _Spring Tea_


    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

  Open Face Sandwiches
  Orange Nut Bread Sandwiches
  Maraschino Cherries or Strawberries in Fondant
  Maids of Honor
  Salted Nuts
  Peppermint-Topped Sponge Cakes
  Tea
  Coffee

Cherry Sandwiches—1 package cream cheese, 2 teaspoons anchovy paste, ½
teaspoon onion juice, salt and pepper to taste, pimiento, parsley or
green pepper.

Cream cheese until smooth. Add anchovy paste, onion juice and salt and
pepper and blend smoothly. Spread mixture on round of bread. Cut small
circles from pimiento and place two of these “cherries” on each round.
Finish with stems made from parsley or green pepper.


                             MAIDS OF HONOR

  ½ cup butter
  2 unbeaten eggs
  ¾ cup sugar
  2 cups sifted flour
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  2 teaspoons bak. powder
  1½ cups raspberry jam
  ½ cup blanched, chopped almonds
  1 cup whipping cream

Cream shortening until soft. Add eggs and beat to blend well. Add sugar
and cream until light and fluffy. Sift flour, measure and sift with salt
and baking powder. Add to creamed mixture. Form into small balls in
palms of hands and place in greased small muffin pans. Press dough up
around edges to make hole in center. Mix jam and nuts together and fill
hole in dough. Bake in hot oven, 450 degrees, for 10 minutes. Cool, and
if desired, serve topped with whipped cream that has been sweetened to
taste.

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

Make pig pen of bread sticks or long peppermint sticks as pictured.
Sprinkle small paper shamrocks or small candy shamrocks in and around
pen. Place pig banks in pen. For candleholder, cut out large potato and
insert candle.

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

Use a large picture hat or make a hat with stiff paper for this. Arrange
a large maline or ribbon bow to trail on the table from the crown of the
hat. Place flowers in the center of the crown or arrange flowers around
the crown of the hat.


                        BARNYARD EASTER EGG HUNT

Choose two sides, each captained by a child. Players hunt for Easter
eggs but only the two leaders, the Hens, can touch them. When a girl
finds an egg, she must cluck until the leader comes to pick up the egg.
Boys will crow when they find an egg. When they have all been found,
each side counts eggs to gain the total. Each child in the group with
the largest amount can be given a specially decorated egg or bunny for a
prize. Of course, divide the eggs that have been found among the members
of each team.


                           POTATO ROLL RELAY

Mark two four-inch circles 5 feet apart on the floor to designate the
goals in the relay. Choose sides and give the leader of each side an
irregularly shaped potato and a table knife. The players, in turn, must
roll the potato from one circle to the other and back again with the aid
of the knife. Judges can check to make sure that the potato is in the
circle each time. As each player comes back to the starting point, he
hands the knife to the next player and the relay goes on.


                         NOTHING BUT THE TRUTH

Guests sit in a circle. Each guest, in turn, asks each one of the other
guests a question which must be answered truthfully. The answer may be
yes or no, or the truth may be evaded, but an untruth cannot be told.
Fines can be imposed upon those who might make a misstatement.

                                From ...
                         Mary Cullen’s Cottage
                         Household Arts Service
                              The JOURNAL
                                Portland
                                 Oregon




                          Transcriber’s Notes


—Silently corrected a few typos.

—Retained publication information from the printed edition: this eBook
  is public-domain in the country of publication.

—In the text versions only, text in italics is delimited by
  _underscores_.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK 65742 ***
